# Bearer Authorization : 

## Write the following steps in the correct order : 
1. Register your application to get a client_id and client_secret.
2. Ask the client if they want to sign in via a third party.
3. Redirect to a third party authentication endpoint.
4. Make a request to a third-party API endpoint
5. Receive authorization code.
6. Make a request to the access token endpoint.
7. Receive access token
<br/>
<br/>



## What can you do with an authorization code? 

- For Authorization Code grant type, the first step is to issue an auth code to the client. The client will then get back with the auth code and client credentials to request for a token.
<br/>
<br/>

## What can you do with an access token? 

- it will include that token as a credential when making API requests. To do so, it should transmit the access token to the API as a Bearer credential in an HTTP Authorization header.
<br/>
<br/>

## What’s a benefit of using OAuth instead of your own basic authentication?

- It allows you to read data of a user from another application.
- It supplies the authorization workflow for web, desktop applications, and mobile devices.
-It is a server side web app that uses authorization code and does not interact with  user credentials.
- It gives users more control over their data; they can selectively grant access to various functionalities for applications they want to use.

<br/>
<br/>

## vocabulary

| term | definition |
| --- | --- |
| Client ID | The client ID is the unique identifier provided to an app upon registration |
| Client Secret | The Client Secret is a unique and confidential value held between the authorization server and authorized clients. It restricts the issuing of access tokens to trusted requestors [(source)](https://auth0.com/docs/applications). |
| Authentication Endpoint | An API endpoint used for requesting access to resources|
| Access Token Endpoint | An API endpoint for requesting a token |
| API Endpoint | This is the touch point between applications that points to the necessary resources; in other words where your request goes |
| Authorization Code | "A random string generated by the authorization server and returned to the application as part of the authorization response. The authorization code is relatively short-lived and is exchanged for an Access Token at the token endpoint when using the Authorization Code Flow."|
| Access Token | "A credential that is used by an application to access an API. It informs the API that the bearer has been authorized"| 

<br/>
<br/>


## What is JWT ? JSON Web Token Explained

- JWTs are compact, they can be sent over URL easily
- JWTs are intended for use between any two parteis.
- JWT is an Open Standard
<br/>
<br/>

## Form: `aaaaaaaa.bbbbbbbb.cccccccc`
ß
- A's repersent the header of the token
  - includes the encoding algorithm
  - includes token type
- B's repersent the payload
  - claims
  - additional metadata (name, role)
- C's repersent the signiture
  - encodes the header and payload with the client secret

- A JWT is composed of three `base64` encoded segments

<br/>
<br/>

## Is JWT secure?

- if you don't know the secret, you can't modify the JWT

## Preview

1. Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?

1. access tokens
2. what is a header and how do we use it
3. how to use tests in the labs (its very confusing-- sometimes take me 6 hours)
<br/>
<br/>


2. Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?
- tests, tokens mostly.
<br/>
<br/>


3. What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?
- tests !
<br/>
<br/>

<br/>
<br/>

# References:

1. [JWTs Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=926mknSW9Lo)<br/>
2. [Intro to JWT](https://jwt.io/introduction/)<br/>
3. [Are JWTs Secure?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27301557/if-you-can-decode-jwt-how-are-they-secure)<br/>

